README.md, before:

<p>
  <img width="100%" src="https://assets.solidjs.com/banner?type=solid-highlight&background=tiles&project=%20" alt="solid-highlight">
</p>

# solid-highlight

>

[![size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/solid-highlight?style=for-the-badge)](https://bundlephobia.com/package/solid-highlight)
[![size](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/solid-highlight?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/solid-highlight)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/solid-highlight?style=for-the-badge)
[![pnpm](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-pnpm-cc00ff.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=pnpm)](https://pnpm.io/)

[download-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/solid-highlight.svg
[download-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/solid-highlight

[![solid-highlight](https://nodei.co/npm/solid-highlight.png)](https://npmjs.org/package/solid-highlight)

## Documentation

### Installation

```bash
npm i solid-highlight
# or
yarn add solid-highlight
# or
pnpm add solid-highlight
```

### Usage

#### Importing component

```js
import { Highlight } from "solid-highlight";
```

#### Adding styles

Choose the [theme](https://highlightjs.org/static/demo/) for syntax highlighting and add corresponding styles of highlight.js, either as a stylesheet or by importing in your `index.tsx` file

```css
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/path/to/styles/theme-name.css">
```

```js
import "highlight.js/styles/stackoverflow-light.css";
```

The styles will most likely be in `node_modules/highlight.js/styles` folder.

#### Properties

| Property       | Type               | Default | Description                                                                    |
| :------------- | :----------------- | :------ | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| class          | string             |         | Custom css classes to be included                                              |
| language       | string (optional)  | `''`    | Language of code to be highlighted (will be detected automatically by default) |
| autoDetect     | boolean (optional) | `true`  | Whether to automatically detect the language of code to be highlighted         |
| ignoreIllegals | boolean (optional) | `true`  | Whether to ignore illegal characters in the code to be highlighted             |

#### Syntax highlighting of code snippet

Code snippet that requires syntax highlighting should be passed as children to Highlight component in string format.

```js
<Highlight autoDetect={true}> {"function foo() { return 'bar' }"} </Highlight>
```

```js
<Highlight autoDetect={false} language={"js"}>
  {"function foo() { return 'bar' }"}
</Highlight>
```

Commit message:

feat: migrate to prismjs (#96)
* test: prismjs

* fix: lock

* feat: add unocss

* feat: import solid-highlight package direct

* feat: include line-numbers

* test: re-add unocss to dev

* test: remove prism-typescript import

* test: remove typescript, okadio imports

* test: import specific languages vite prismjs

* test: all prismjs languages

* test: remove prismjs vite

* test: zig code, noExternal prismjs

* test: import zig lang

* feat: styling

* fix: correct selected option

* feat: style

* test: pre

* test: gap

* test: remote items-start

* docs: prismjs update

* testy: h-full

* test: border inc ode

* test: border inc ode 2

* test: border inc ode 3

* test: border inc ode 4

* test: border inc ode 5

* dev: responsive

* dev: overflow auto

* test: working dev

* test: ssr no external

README.md, after:

<p>
  <img width="100%" src="https://assets.solidjs.com/banner?type=solid-highlight&background=tiles&project=%20" alt="solid-highlight">
</p>

# solid-highlight

>

[![size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/solid-highlight?style=for-the-badge)](https://bundlephobia.com/package/solid-highlight)
[![size](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/solid-highlight?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/solid-highlight)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/solid-highlight?style=for-the-badge)
[![pnpm](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-pnpm-cc00ff.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=pnpm)](https://pnpm.io/)

[download-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/solid-highlight.svg
[download-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/solid-highlight

[![solid-highlight](https://nodei.co/npm/solid-highlight.png)](https://npmjs.org/package/solid-highlight)

## Documentation

### Installation

```bash
npm i solid-highlight
# or
yarn add solid-highlight
# or
pnpm add solid-highlight
```

### Usage

#### Importing component

```js
import { Highlight } from "solid-highlight";
```

#### Adding styles

Choose the [theme](https://highlightjs.org/static/demo/) for syntax highlighting and add corresponding styles of prism.js by importing in your `index.tsx` file

```js
import "prismjs/themes/prism-okaidia.min.css";
```

The styles will most likely be in `node_modules/prismjs/themes` folder.

#### Adding languages

Choose the [languages](https://highlightjs.org/static/demo/) available for syntax highlighting by importing in your `index.tsx` file

```js
import "prismjs/components/prism-typescript";
```

The languages will most likely be in `node_modules/prismjs/components` folder.

#### Properties

| Property | Type   | Default      | Description                        |
| :------- | :----- | :----------- | :--------------------------------- |
| class    | string |              | Custom css classes to be included  |
| language | string | `javascript` | Language of code to be highlighted |

#### Syntax highlighting of code snippet

Code snippet that requires syntax highlighting should be passed as children to Highlight component in string format.

```js
<Highlight language="javascript">
  {" "}
  {"function foo() { return 'bar' }"}{" "}
</Highlight>
```
